# Study-on-APIs

## Relationship Between an API and a Software Development Kit (SDK)
An API (Application Programming Interface) is an interface that allows seperate peices of software to communicate with eachother. An API allows software that has been written in completely different languages to be able interact with one another, as the different languages can be translated and transferred by the API to make sure each piece of software can understand eachother. APIs are mainly used to exchange information between different software, for example a API could be used with a weather software to allow a website to show the current forcast. It does this by recieving the information from the weather software and then transferring that data to the website so it can be presented there. An SDK, however, is tools that a programmer can use help them write software, like a virtual toolbox. SDKs contain libraries that are pieces of code that allow certain functions to be carried out, instead of the programmer having to write these functions from scratch. Windows SDK contains libraries that contain functions that make it easier for the programmer to interact with the windows operating system, without these libraries the coder would be forced to write functions from scratch. SDKs also contain debuggers that help a programmer find bugs within their code, a way a debugger does this is by indicating to the programmer what line of code is causing the error, this is especially helpful when working with large amounts of code as it helps the programmer pin-point the error in their code. The relationship between APIs and SDKs are that SDKs are the tools which a programmer uses to integrate APIs into their code. A simplified SDK could be seen as an API, if the SDK contained files that were able to interact with the given programming language, as this would require different pieces of software to interact with one another.
